With Docker Desktop installed and running,
I went ahead and switched back to our IDE,
and I closed all of the open tabs we had earlier and shut
down the tomcat instance that was running.
And I'm going to right‑click on our project and say New, File.
We want to name this file docker‑compose.yml.
This is a YAML file.
And yes, you do want to name your file the exact same thing as this.
It does follow convention over configuration.
So name your file this, and we'll hit Enter.
And it will ask if I want to add this to Git.
If you're using Git and have it set up that way,
it's going to continually ask if you want to import those files.
So I will just cancel this and do it in the desktop
IDE that I've got installed locally.
We can start editing this.
So I'm going to begin with typing in version, and this does have
some context‑sensitive help. A lot of your IDEs do.
If you don't, it doesn't matter because this is literally just a text file.
A YAML file is just a text file.
So we're going to add networks inside of here, and we're just going
to use the default network. From here, we want to start utilizing
these services and specifically the database service. And we're
going to begin with an image,
and the image we want is mysql. And this is name and case‑sensitive, so I
would follow the exact conventions I have typed in here.
The container name, we're just going to use conference.
And for the ports, we're actually going to use the default ports that they have.
You could change this to something else,
but you have to get it configured correctly with your OS and
with the port that's inside of the container.
We'll just use the defaults for now.
And this is for your local instance, so it shouldn't be affecting anything there.
We'll have volumes,
and this is probably the one that's the most
error‑prone for you typing incorrectly.
We're going to say,
store our data for this underneath our project in a .data directory and
under a folder named /db. And then for our environment, we'll say use
var/lib/mysql. And our last environment entry, and this is the environment
of our container, I'm going to say MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD, and we will use
pass there. And for the database, we'll say MYSQL_DATABASE, and this is
the database name.
We will say conference as well there and just save this.
I'm going to switch over to our terminal, and we can actually run this docker‑compose file.